Trip to Cornell - May 23-25, 2005;Being in the space science business, I work with several people from Ithaca, NY and at Cornell in particular.  This is pretty cool because I attended Cornell as an undergraduate student from 1983-1987, and any chance to visit the place is a fun walk down memory lane.  I have only been back to Cornell twice: once for homecoming in 1988 and once during <a href="/roadtrip/">Joanne and my honeymoon trip around the US</a> in 1998.  And in May of 2005, I finally got the chance to travel to Ithaca to meet with a consultant on my project, and I was lucky enough to be able to stay with one of Joanne's old friends, Laurie, who lives in Ithaca.  I also had some free time to roam around campus and visit those great old bars of Collegetown, and I've tried to capture here some of my thoughts and feelings on how things have changed - and in some cases not changed at all!
I started a few blocks from Laurie's apartment, at the base of the "closed for seasonal repairs" Cascadilla Gorge Path, a beautiful alternate way to climb the steep hills to Cornell's campus.
Ithaca was mostly cloudy during my visit, which brought back fond memories.  Buthe gorges are indeed beautiful.  This south gorge is the smaller of the two on campus.
Waterfalls abound over the characteristic slate slabs in the area.
It almost looks like steps, doesn't it?
The roads through and near campus cross over many high bridges, where Cornell has gotten a reputation for some students tragically "gorging out" after tough exams.  Oh, the pressure!
While in Collegetown, a part of Ithaca situated at the south end of campus, I looked around for old surviving restaurants and bars that I remember well.  Here's one of them!  This place had great Greek pizza!  My favorite was called "Popeye Pizza" (spinach and feta).
Dunbar's was a totally classic dive bar and great alternative to actually studying.  I think CCR was the only music they had in the jukebox back then, and although that has changed, nothing else has.  When we stopped in later to check it out, the popcorn machine's glass sides were opaque and yellow with oil, the lights were low (good thing, since I doubt they have dusted for 20 years), and they still serve "group therapy" on Wednesday nights (Damn!  Off by one night!) for $6 (Meisterbrau has been replaced by another brand of "fine" beer, but you still get a pitcher and 6 kamikaze shots in the package - a sure recipe for disaster!).
And next door to Dunbar's (how convenient!) is my old dorm, Cascadilla, where I lived in room 3156 for freshman and sophomore years.  In 1983 it was the new chic place to live, having been newly renovated.  More on this later...
We used to have big parties in the parking lot next to the dorm, where we'd dance to Billy Idol, Duran Duran, The Romantics, etc.  Now, as you can see, a new performing arts center sits where the lot used to be, blocking our view of the old Oliver's deli (which is gone, replaced by the now expanded Collegetown Bagels).
There's my room - 2nd story up and 2nd and 3rd windows from the corner on this side (facing Cascadilla Gorge).
I also walked up the hill from Collegetown Bagels, after getting my old favorite (a sesame bagel with melted muenster - yep, they still have it!), to the house where I used to live during the summer of my junior year (I did a summer semester as part of the engineering co-op program).
Our room, which I shared with Gen from Russia, was on this side in the back.  Here's an old picture inside the room with some friends: <a href="old_pics/joe_elena_leyan.jpg">(click here)</a>.  And the hats?  Don't ask...
It's back there somewhere...
From the house on Summit, I used to mainly walk up to the Engineering Quad, since most of my classes, some horrifying and some kinda fun, where there that year.  This is a classic view of the old sundial that is the focus of the quad, and the building in the background is new - what a wild structure!  It's called Duffield Hall, and it has been glued onto and is in the process of engulfing Philips Hall (well, it looks that way, anyway).
Imagine this grassy hill covered with drunken students.  Many a Cornell party was had here on "Lib Slope."
The belltower adjacent to Uris Library is a classic icon of Cornell.  Willard Strait is on the left.
I swear this painting was hanging in The Strait when I was a student - anyone?
The stairs where the painting hangs go down to the Ivy Room, a popular hangout in The Strait.  Through the left doorway and down another staircase is "Okenshields," one of the dining halls, where you could get such excellent dishes as brown rice lasagna, broccoli lasagna, and [probably] other strange forms of this classic pasta dish!  Those of us in the know mostly went to Sage Dining Hall, probably the best on campus (and Cornell was actually known for it's much better-than-average college dining!).  Sadly, Sage Dining Hall is gone now (Sage Hall was completely renovated).
The campus store has a central, and underground, spot on campus.  It wasn't cool to wear your Cornell sweatshirt until after graduation, though.
The Arts Quad is the most beautiful one, for sure!  McGraw Hall sits to the right of old Ezra himself.
Another classic view!  And the sky is starting to clear a little - yay!
Ezra Cornell and Andrew Dickson White (way behind me) are rumored to walk to the center of the quad on some special night (I forget the details...) and shake hands.  It's like the fable that the famous suspension bridge over the main gorge will crumble and fall if you refuse a kiss while standing on it.
And there's old Andrew in front of Goldwin Smith, a prominent hall for sure!
Sibley Hall is where I got a taste of computer graphics my senior year.  It definately influenced my future career!
Another view alongside Duffield Hall in the Engineering Quad.
I managed to get let into my old dorm, Cascadilla, and since everyone had moved out for the year, the rooms were not locked, so I stepped back in time 20 years into my old room.  What a strange feeling!
The exposed brick was a very cool feature of the dorm.  Here's an old picture of my cousin in front of this wall: <a href="old_pics/de.jpg">(click here)</a>
Looks like they replaced the switch we used to short-circuit to be able to plug in popcorn poppers, etc...
The only thing that looks different is the furniture layout...
OK, you are getting bored now.  Bear with me...
No, really, we're almost done with these!
And the door number plaque is the same damn one too!
The neighbors!
You can't see it very clearly in these pictures, but the place really looks run down!  Man, this place was shiny and new when I was a student.  Here you can see some carpet patches, and I bet these are the original carpets - they are pretty dirty looking now.  Those black corner guards on the walls are new too - I bet the students (over 20 years!) did a number on them.  Here's an old view down the same hallway: <a href="old_pics/pat2.jpg">(click here)</a>
Our other neighbors down the other way toward the study lounge.  Again, an old pic: <a href="old_pics/kelly3.jpg">(click here)</a>
This brick wall, right outside my room, was the backdrop for such antics as fireballs <a href="old_pics/fireball1.jpg">(click here)</a> and redouts (don't ask).  Also, I must say we really got this end of the floor rockin' during some informal dorm parties.  Good times, good times.
I took a picture through the peephole like this 20 years ago <a href="old_pics/peephole.jpg">(click here)</a>, and guess what, it is eerily the same!
The kitchen has changed a little, but it still looks pretty much like I remember it.  Here's an old pic: <a href="old_pics/steve3.jpg">(click here)</a>
Outside the kitchen is the lounge, and the little TV room in back got what looks like a bigger tube...
Again, these pictures don't convey the dingy appearance of the place now.  Or maybe I remember it too fondly?  We had it good, man!
So off to check out the Collegetown night life.  Before dark, we can see that some of the mainstays are still there, including Johnny's Big Red and the Royal Palm (now it looks like it's the "oy Palm").
The Chariot was one of my favorites.  I think the Pizza was the best in town, and guess what: it's still great!  Laurie and I stopped in for pizza after hanging out at Ruloff's and Dunbar's, and Marcus, the manager pictured here, told us that (sadly!) The Chariot will be closing in a couple of weeks.  What a bummer!  Marcus said he used to work at The Nines (a competing Pizza joint) the years I was a student!
For old times sake, Laurie and I posed in front of the old wall art that looks the same as I remember - at least I think it was the same!
Marcus encouraged me, as an old Chariot customer, to stand behind the bar.  Truly the end of an era!
The next day, I drove around a little on my way to the airport.  I had to stop by Carl Sagan's old house.  Shown here is the entrance by the street.
But the house itself is almost hidden in the gorge - a really unique place!
A closer look showed a lot of wear and tear.  I wonder if anyone lives there now.
On the other side of the street, we get a vew into the main gorge as it ascends the hill toward campus.  The suspension bridge can just be seen in the distance.  Swimming in the gorge, not entirely legal, was a popular event and drew large crowds at the start of each school year.
And since I had forgotten to get a picture of sign above The Chariot the night before, I had to stop by one more time.  So long, Chariot.
Turning around and looking toward Cascadilla dorm, I see that Eddy Gate still looks great, and it just might have a few more vines on it these days.
On the plane ride home, I could just make out Niagra Falls (in the center of this picture).  You may need to look at the full-size version!  Anyway, it was a great and nostalgic visit!
