New Horizons Science Team Meeting in Flagstaff, AZ - September 9-11, 2007
On my way to Flagstaff, I stopped in Sedona to meet some colleagues.  Here, Emma stands in front of some "pigs" at Tlaquepaque.
Laura, Jane, Bonny, and Emma
A white-lined sphinx moth pretends to be a hummingbird.
Before the evening meeting, we have a bite to eat in a downtown Flagstaff square, entertained by a "bluegrass family".
Entering Lowell Observatory
Ralph, Ann, Matt, and Alice engage in lively debate during a meeting break.
Ann
Kerri, Alan, and Mike
Heather, Matt, and Alice
Ann and Ralph
The "Rotunda"
Is Pluto a planet?  You can support Lowell and vote at the same time!
Mike makes the right choice.
Clyde Tombaugh discovered Pluto using this machine (the "blink comparator").
The "Pluto Walk" - yet another solar system scale model
Kerri and Mike in front of the Pluto telescope dome
I pretend to open the door.
Now inside a different dome, we admire Percival Lowell's telescope, with which he became conviced he had observed "the canals on Mars".
These old wooden domes are truly amazing!
And this one rotates on what appear to be automobile tires.
Everything still works, too.
Pervical is buried here.
Now in the Pluto dome, we see the device that made the famous photographic plates that revealed Pluto to the world.
The science team discusses New Horizons' upcoming annual checkout.
Alan and Emma
Mark and Ann
Mark explains something incredibly complex.
Just after a storm passes, the grounds are particularly lush.
Driving down from Mars Hill, I spot an amazing rainbow!
Martini drinkers bond at the local brewery.
The next morning, the doors on the Pluto dome have been opened for photograph sessions inside.
...
Ropes and pulleys are used to manipulate the doors.
The Student Dust Counter team (Andrew, Mihaly, and David)
...
The Pluto telescope's closed aperature
...
Michael, New Horizons' photographer, gets in the picture.
...
Michael holds his picture of New Horizons - the same one held by many during his photo shoots.
Kerri revels in taking the dome controls to rotate it into position.
Glen takes a cell phone call.
...
...
One more shot of the rotunda dome...  This was my first visit to Lowell Observatory, a truly amazing and historically profound place!
