Mount Democrat & Mount Lincoln (14ers) - September 18, 2005
Here's the trailhead of our hike to Mount Democrat and then Mount Lincoln.  Joanne is reading the notice that the mountains are privately owned (and you have to get permission?).
Looking up toward Mount Democrat (the summit is not visible)
The trail can be seen ahead, and the ridge up to Mount Lincoln is above the cliffs on the right.
Now we see the left side of Mount Bross.
And more Bross...
Soon after starting up to Mount Democrat, Joe pauses for a pic before getting to a mine.
The view back down to Kite Lake (the trailhead)
Joanne poses in front of the mine runoff.
The runoff is colorful, and old rusty equipment can be seen mixed in.
These mountains contain many mine ruins.
From high on the side of Mount Democrat, we can see the ridge to Mount Cameron/Lincoln.
Hi!
The realtively rounded Mount Bross
The trailhead can no longer be seen.
We've reached the saddle ridge between Mount Democrat and Mount Cameron/Lincoln, and we are looking north!
The north slopes of the Mount Cameron/Lincoln ridge (right) are fairly steep talus/scree.
Total eclipse of...something!
Joe is quite pleased with the view.
We made it to the Mount Democrat summit!
...
...
The Climax mining operation below to the northwest
Mount Lincoln can now just be seen peaking out from behind Mount Cameron.
More fantastic views from the top of Mount Democrat
...
...
...
...
Joanne relaxes, sheltered from the wind.
...
Orange and other colors of life cover the rocks.
Looking back toward Mount Democrat from the ridge up to Mount Cameron.
Mount Cameron can now be seen just ahead.
From the flat top of Mount Cameron, the summit of Mount Lincoln is clearly visible.
...
Almost there!
Mount Bross, often a 3rd 14er climbed after Mount Lincoln and Mount Democrat, is not in our plans today, but we had the pleasure of visiting it 3.5 years ago.
Joanne descends the small "bump" before the home stretch to Mount Lincoln.
First view from the Mount Lincoln summit
The pipe with the summit register can be seen here.
The cliffs below Mount Lincoln are steep on the Mount Bross side.
View to the northwest
The eastern view reveals that civilization is not far away.
Mount Lincoln's USGS marker!
I test the camera remote control atop Mount Lincoln.
...
Looking back on Mount Lincoln, we see others at the summit.
Getting ready to descend to the saddle, with Mount Democrat in the background
The trailhead, so far below
The angle of the sun makes nice shading in the valley.
The typical descent down Mount Bross is somewhere over there!
The patterns in the rock cliffs are cool.
We are tired as we work our way down, but it's been a great day!
