Trip to Holland for ESA/ESTEC SPICE class - April 10-17, 2005
I arrive, jetlagged, at Schiphol Airport, Amsterdam, Netherlands
Ahh, the control tower!  Yes, I'm a bit out of it at this point, but excited to be here!
Looking out of the back door of the magestic Huis ter Duin hotel
The front of the hotel (BTW, it's pronounced like "House-ter-Down")
The "Great Glass Elevator" (they don't call it that) that took me to my 7th floor room, overlooking the town of Noordwijk
After exiting the hotel, you can take this street down to the main beach drag.
A fish stand, by the beach, where I will eat three times (first, the haring, of course, but I did not try to cut down a large tree with one!)
It is chilly on the beach - not a day for swimming, but as the sky cleared (now about 15:00 ot 16:00 in the afternoon), it starts to warm up, and many people are walking the beach.
Now walking back toward the hotel along the beach
This is what they call "The Shopping Street."  On Sundays, it opens at 13:00.
With the wide angle lens, the people look far away, but there are large groups, and the beach is covered with what looks like razor clams.  I am starting to get my second wind now...
I was assured later that this foam is not polution but is normal.  It, along with the clams, make the water in this area look a bit uninviting for sure!
The Huis ter Duin certainly rules the beach skyline!
Kids are having fun being pulled by these large kites - some on rolling boards, others in the surf.
I asked this kid to show me how the kite could lift him into the air.
...and even higher!
The kites are quite large, but not as big as paragliders.
Hi flies it down toward me.
Erwin, who is practicing with a real paraglider, poses for a couple of pictures.
He appears to be landing after a flight, but he really just ran foward to catch some air.  I like this shot!
The surf rolls in...
The bulb fields are everywhere!  On the way back from my first day of class, I stop to admire these hyacinths.
I love the roofing in Holland!
The vivid colors just do not transfer to a photo - imagine the colors MUCH brighter!
Some pink tulips
The sun, low in the afternoon sky, glinting through the lobby of the Huis ter Duin
More bands of golden sun adorn the hotel lobby, a somewhat rare sight as the week went on.
The sun nearing the horizon, seen from in back of the hotel
Cris-crossing jet trails over the dunes
The night view of Noordwijk from my hotel room
Chuck speaks to the SPICE class
Ed and Chuck captivate the eager students
The lunch room at ESTEC - very nice!
Another view of the lunch room
Andrea boards the boat to Kaag Island
Detlef has the same camera as I, so we have to take mutual portraits!
Kristin, Chris, Sini, and Sanna
A highly "SPICEd" table!
The driver is a little worn out after the scraping and bumping the boat got under the first bridge...
Is this a little out of focus because of my camera, or was Sini moving too fast?
Oh, I guess it is the camera!  Must get the focus mode right!
Where are those drinks?
The spooky Dutch countryside (aided by the less-than-clear boat window)
A windmill!  Finally, we know for sure we are in Holland!
Another shot of the mill off the back of the boat
Still waiting for those drinks...
Sini provides an action shot on Kaag Island
More fun on Kaag!
Joe the photographer gets in a shot!
The two fins posing under a finnish sign that says, "Hello-Hello"
Small, beautiful gardens are commonplace.
Still on Kaag, an elaborate garden
No, these Shetland Ponies are not moving fast.  The daylight is disappearing fast, and dusk is taking over, making outdoor shots tough...
???? and Andrea
Waiting for dinner...
...
Hmm?  What did you call me??
Chuck and Virginie
Sanna and Joe
...
Joe and Sini do "cheers"
Amara and ????
The food arives...
And back at my hotel, I run into a nice German couple I met the first night.
The couple also brought their dog to the bar (not pictured, so stop looking for it!)
I think the large drink Jean-Luc (the bartender) poured me is responsible for the hat (the drink was a "grandfather").
Jean-Luc ranks up there on my list of top bartenders.  He clearly enjoys his job!
Jean-Luc poses with a local Dutchman, the only European I met who likes George W. Bush.
...
When will this handshake be over?
Sanna and Sini demonstrate their slight difference in style at a local cheese shop.
Yum!!!
Ahh, class is over, and it is time for me to take a bike ride.  I start near the dunes in the north end of town...
Many small farms have a uniquie quaintness.
...
This road take me up along the dunes, which are to the left (west) of this wooded area.
Vivid stripes of color from distant bulb fields catch your eye as you ride, even through the trees.  My rental bike is typical of those used for transportation: basic, durable, and with 3-gears.  Unlike most sport bikes in The States, this one sits you upright with a high center of gravity, and it is quite comfortable!
This picture starts to capture the intensity of the tulips.
More smatterings of color under threatening skies
Now I am 3 kilometers from Noordwijk, near the town of Noordwijkerhout.
The canals run all through the countryside.
The hyacinths seem to always come in sets like this
A charming small house lost in a more industrial area of town
Many, many tulips!
The flowers go on forever...
Wow
A harvester cuts flowers in a bulb field
A beautiful tower sits in the distance in or near Lisse, home of the Keukenhof Gardens, which was my final destination, even though I elected not to pay the entrance fee this late in the day and with the weather getting colder and looking more rainy.
...
More bulb fields near the Keukenhof
...
...
Yellow flowers seem more rare, and again, the photo does not reveal the bright color.
Ahh, deep purple...
Some interesting farm animals back in Noordwijk
Fred studies some charts in preparation for flight.
The cockpit of Fred's very cool airplane!
Hmm, as we taxi, we wonder how high those clouds are.
Fred looks at home in the cockpit.
...
Ah, well I guess 800 feet is all we're going to get!
The countryside looks a lot different than Colorado!
...
...
Wait, those windmills look more modern than the ones I saw before!
High-tech windmills, now generating power and not pumping canal water, are plentiful.
We had a short but exciting flight!
The small grass-strip airport near Fred's home
Fred and Marianne's back deck
The water is quite choppy!
The house from the deck
Their boat, suspended above the water
Fred and Marianne in front of their house - what a great roof!
A old windmill in Ijsselstein, the town where we are about to eat dinner
Miriam, Marija, Ronald, Marianne, Fred, and Gaston at dinner.  That halibut looks great!
An old building in Ijsselstein
The same windmill now appears ghostly after dark under artificial lighting.
My room at the Huis ter Duin!
I picked up the mint off the pillow, but my bed is still in "turned down" mode as was done each night (usually with classical music left playing)
My home for a week would soon be a memory...
My very elegant and european bathroom
Can anyone tell me what movie just ended on the TV?
Back at Schiphol the next morning, ready to depart for America
