Trip to Heidelberg, Germany for SpaceOps conference - May, 2008
After arriving in Heidelberg, we walked from our hotel to the convention center and happened upon this interesting sculpture on the way.
The Neckar river, which runs east-west through the city
A tour boat sits on the north bank of the Neckar
The convention hall (it was the old "Kongresshaus") with ESA spacecraft model out front
A view down Hauptstrasse (the main street through old town in Heidelberg)
A nice belltower
Emma sits on the river banks trying to stay awake.
A look to the east down the river
Sun shining into one of the side conference rooms
The main (large) conference room, where many talks took place
The view from my hotel room (to the south)
...
Sights from the river boat ride, provided by the conference
...
On the boat, Paddy and Chris pretend to see something incredible.
The view of the main protestant church in old town is obscured, but its steeple rises high above the other buildings.
Another boat passes.
Beer was plentiful on the boat (this is Germany, after all!).
The "Schloss" (castle) in Heidelberg
Cool houses on the river
A nice assortment of "finger foods" was served on the boat.
More nice buildings along the river...
At sunset, the river ahead is serene.
We enter the "lock" to be lowered to the new water level.
Another shot of the Schloss
...
After passing under one of the nice bridges
Another view of the main church
Our tour is nearing its end.
More houses...
Kristin and Emma at the Cafe Konditorei Knoesel restaurant in old town
I get in the shot.
The crowd gathers outside the conference hall in prep for the "gala dinner".
...
The ESA model close-up
Paddy, Rob, and others chat while waiting for the busses.
Arriving at the dinner location (the "Schwetzingen Castle")
...
The crowds gather as some of us explore the castle gardens.
A statue in the gardens
Emma chats with Doug about Cassini.
The archway in the center of this building is where we entered the castle grounds.
More cool gardens...
A tall fountain in the gardens
A rather ugly cherub in a fountain
Many fountains had the "lawn sprinkler" effect.
More sculptures...
I am caught on film inside the castle (at our table).
Paddy listens to Shadan.
Rob joins.
Emma awaits dinner time.
Rob and Paddy pose near our table.
No, they are not clapping for me.
Paddy, Rob, Emma, and Shervin
...
The appetizer arrives, including Spargel (asparagus), of course!
After dinner, we were drawn outside to the dessert bar by a display of fireworks!
The bright floodlights on the castle room cast an eerie light on the dessert bar.
...
...
...
Kristin enjoys a sampling of goodies.
A garden fountain, fully illuminated
The vast castle dining hall after dark
Guests mill about, chat, and enjoy the after-dinner treats.
Rob, Chris, Paddy, and others
...
Jenn and Shadan
Emma attempts to gather some metal asparagus.
Carole tries to drive off with the bus.
Dinner at the Roten Ochsen ("Red Ox")
A table filled with Spargel (asparagus) at the market one morning
At Market Square (near the main church) for breakfast
The walk up the the Heidelberg Schloss (castle) - it is steeper than it looks!
Now the steepness is apparent.
I stand on the walk.
One of many interesting adornments on the castle grounds
Looking out through the viewing slit in the castle wall
Now through a barred window
And now through a long archway
Again, the main church, seen from part-way up to the castle
A better view of the castle structure below us can now be seen.
More castle...
The "Apothecary Museum" in the castle.
Looking west over Heidelberg from the castle wall
Looking down on old town and the main church
More of the old town area
A courtyard area, far below
The french blew up the gunpowder in this stone tower, causing the side to fall off.
The fallen side of the tower has since been integrated into the structure with walls constructed since then.
Sheep
A cool sundial on a wall facing an inner courtyard area in the castle
View down Hauptstrasse (the main street)
One shop sold liqueurs bottled from these large glass containers.
A street art display featuring what seemed to be an icon of Heidelberg (the heart shape)
Cafe Konditorei Knoesel restaurant, which we visited a couple of times
Dinner on the last night at Schnitzelhaus
Walking back from dinner, Paddy gets drawn into a bachelor party on the main street, in which the groom-to-be has her choose a song for them to sing.
...
...
...
...
The "Castle Hotel" (small building on the upper left), where Mark Twain wrote Huckleberry Finn
A "replacement window" in the protestant church
A residence built by a french huguenot
Our historical tour guide
The jesuit church
A statue depicting Mary and Christ overpowering protestantism (the "Devil")
