Torreys Peak - July 26, 2007 (our anniversary!)
On our 9th wedding anniversary, Joanne looks up at Kelso Ridge, the route we had planned for reaching Torreys Peak.
At this point, the ridge is easy, but it gets harder (as you can see), and the weather is looking iffy.
We evaluate the situation and decide to forget Kelso Ridge, descending to the trail junction to attempt Torreys via the standard route.
The mine near the start of Kelso Ridge
...
Joanne looks at some of the more ominous clouds to the east as we ascend.
The summit awaits, and the sky is looking good over there.
Still working our way up toward the Grays/Torreys saddle
Joe takes a rest with the summit in the background.
Looking back down the slopes of Grays Peak, we see Joanne getting close to the saddle.
The view to the west opens up when we reach the saddle.
It's now a straight shot up to Torreys.  The sky still looks OK.
Joanne walks the south Torreys ridge.
The summit is now well within reach!
Remains of a snow cornice at the top of one of Torreys' several steep chutes
The many colors of the mountains looking west/south
Looking down along the Kelso Ridge
A wider shot, showing the valley back to the trailhead
The trail up Grays Peak can be seen here, and clouds still loom to the east.
Yay!  Joe & Joanne on the summit, looking west
An anniversary kiss!
Joe & Joanne on the summit, looking east
Grays Peak (which we summited a few weeks ago)
Looking back toward the trailhead from the top
Looking west/north
Looking south/west, with Grays Peak on the left
More views from the top...
...
...
A short walk down the Kelso Ridge reveals a great view of the "knife edge", one of the harder parts of that route.
A wide view down the Kelso Ridge with the knife edge close-by
Now, well down off the peak, the clouds have really been building, and it has started to rain.
Looking back up at Torreys Peak, we note that the summit is now in clouds.
We endure rain for much of the lower part of the hike.
...
Some beautiful wild flowers make a nice conclusion to our great hike!
...
...
...
...
...
